# API Backlog meeting

#### *19th of Jan 2023*

## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|Sulvain Morel, Orange|
|Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica|
|Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica|
|Eric Murray, Vodafone|
|Moggio Fabrizio, TIM|
|Jan Friman, Ericsson|

## Agenda


1. Discussion
2. Action Points
3. AoB



## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | 
| | DT, TEF | Originally treated in Commonalities WG, user consent management has generated an intense debate for the last month (see [#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pulls)). To speed up progress on this topic while freeing resources in Commonalities WG for other topics, it was decided to convey all discussions through a dedicated Sub-project from now on. To that end, it has been proposed to create a new Sub-Project in CAMARA called 'Identity and Consent' via PR [#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/116). The [backlog live table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) has been updated with a new entry to register the new proposal. | 
| **Current issues** |  |  |
|  [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57)  | TEF | **API proposal pipeline: from API backlog to SteerCo approval**<br> The comments and suggestions from the different WG participants have been fedback to CAMARA chairman.  TEF and DT have worked out on a new draft to incorporate this feedback. PRs to update documents in [Governance](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/pull/65/commits/ee5d1709292e564980b7eb2b3c994ca17178b402) and [backlog live table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) will be actioned in the upcoming days, and participants will be informed in due time. |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| **New issues** |  | |
| [#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pr/116)  | TEF | This PR is for submitting the filled-in template for a new API proposal on identity and user consent management. <br><li>The idea is to keep progressing on this topic through this dedicated Sub-Project, and free resources in commonalities. If we come up with the need to define APIs scoping consent, their definition and maintenance will be done in this new Sub-Project</li><li>The prime focus will be consent, though potential link to susbcriber identity discussion might arise (e.g., issue [#101](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/101)), hence the addition of identity wording.</li><li>Next steps: <br> - WG participants to keep progressing and commenting on [#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pulls); <br>  - WG participants to declare their support to the API proposal available [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/SupportingDocuments/API%20proposals/APIFamilyproposal_Identity%26Consent.md). The WG coordinator will capture the support in the [backlog live table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md); </br> - Send the API proposal for approval to the SteerCo by 1st Feb; <br> - Once approved, create the new Sub-Project and move old discussions/thread/issues from Commonalities to the new Sub-Project; |
  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20230119-01 | WG participants | Open | WG participants to declare their support to the API proposal|
| 20230119-02 | TEF | Open | Update backlog live table, registring the new API proposal with a new entry. |
| 20230119-03 | TEF | Open | Merge [#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pr/116) after this call.|
| ~~20230105-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~Send feedback to CAMARA chairman, to draft a stable version for the new WoW.~~ |




## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 2nd Feb 2023
 
